---
description: >-
  This page lists all the necessary documentation to apply to Google Summer of
  Code 2023 with Ersilia
---

# GSoC 2023

## Ideas List

### Pre-requisites

Before making an application, we strongly suggest all contributors read through the existing documentation, and try to install the Ersilia Model Hub in their system. Detailed instructions of how to achieve that can be found [here](https://ersilia.gitbook.io/ersilia-book).

All candidates should focus on two aspects during their application:

* Technical skills development: which software development skills you expect to gain / improve while working in this project
* Progress and end-goals: a well-designed timeline, with clear tasks and objectives, will help mentors review your application and provide better support.

### IDEA 1: Incorporating models in the Ersilia Model Hub (350h)

The Ersilia Model Hub is a platform of pre-trained, ready to use ML models for drug discovery. As part of our nonprofit mission, we constantly screen and review the scientific literature to identify models that might be relevant to our users and incorporate them in our platform. All models incorporated in the Hub must be associated with an open source license. Usually, a model requires between a few hours and a few days to be incorporated. This project is ideal for applicants who are starting their open source journey, as the model incorporation workflow is well documented and has several automated tests via GitHub Actions.&#x20;

We expect contributors will be able to incorporate, at least, 5 new models in the Hub before the end of their project. Variations of this project for more advanced users include adapting the Ersilia Model Hub to accept other input types aside from small molecules, such as text, protein sequences or genomic sequences. This will allow us to expand the models we serve to different fields of biomedicine.&#x20;

Support:

* Look at our [suggested models](https://airtable.com/shrTpe45mLKqaHXsc) to get inspiration on which kind of models we are currently working on.
* Understand a bit more about our codebase  and how the Hub is structured by reading the [documentation](../incorporate-models.md).
* Check out the [Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/ersilia-os/ersilia/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) in the repository!

Requirements:

* Proficiency in Python programming
* Knowledge of AI/ML is not required but is a plus
* Knowledge of the biomedical research landscape related to AI/ML applications for drug discovery is a plus

Suggestions: candidates for this project are encouraged to read scientific literature and identify a few models they would like to work on during the project. In addition, contributing to open issues in the Ersilia codebase and linking these in their final applications will also strengthen the proposal.

Possible mentors include Gemma Turon and Miquel Duran

{% hint style="success" %}
General rating: Easy
{% endhint %}

### IDEA 2: Benchmarking Ersilia's automated Machine Learning pipelines (175h or 350h)

In order to speed up Ersilia’s collaboration with several research organizations, we have developed a set of automated ML tools for chemistry tasks. These tools build upon existing libraries and include [ZairaChem](https://github.com/ersilia-os/zaira-chem), [Lazy-QSAR](https://github.com/ersilia-os/lazy-qsar) and [Olinda](https://github.com/ersilia-os/olinda). We have performed a set of internal validations using both public and proprietary data and the models demonstrate state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance out of the box. We now seek to benchmark and compare the different libraries using well-known datasets (Molecule Net and Therapeutics Data Commons), and incorporate the best models in the Ersilia Model Hub.

Candidates for this project should come up with a plan for benchmarking and comparing the different in-house developed ML pipelines, specifying for example which performance metrics will be used, splitting strategies, cross-validations, etc.

Support:

* If you need to refresh some ML concepts, don't miss the excellent Google Developers [crash course](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course).
* Go through the most common benchmarking datasets for biomedicine, [MoleculeNet](https://moleculenet.org/) and [TDCommons](https://tdcommons.ai/).

Requirements:

* Proficiency in python programming
* Knowledge of Machine Learning: performance metrics and evaluations

Suggestions: candidates for this project should read the pre-print version of the article describing ZairaChem. Applicants can also tackle any open issues on the relevant GitHub repositories and include links to their contributions in the application.

Possible mentors include Gemma Turon

{% hint style="warning" %}
General rating: Medium
{% endhint %}

### IDEA 3: Extending the functionalities of ZairaChem (350h)

ZairaChem is an end-to-end pipeline for ML model training using chemistry datasets. ZairaChem is built as a modular pipeline that includes several molecular representations (Chemical Checker, Modred Descriptors and Morgan Fingerprints, among others), and automated ML tools (such as FLAML and AutoGluon). The final model is delivered as an ensemble of the best models developed at training time. The project proposal is focused on extending the functionalities of ZairaChem to regression tasks and to improve the modularity of the pipeline, allowing the user to easily select between different molecular descriptors and autoML frameworks.&#x20;

Requirements

* Python programming&#x20;
* Knowledge of Machine Learning

Suggestions: candidates for this project should read the pre-print version of the article describing ZairaChem. Applicants can also tackle any open issues on the relevant github repositories and include links to their contributions in the application.

Possible mentors include: Miquel Duran

{% hint style="danger" %}
General rating: hard
{% endhint %}

## Contributor Guidance

This is a guide for applications to the google Summer of Code 2023 who want to work with the Ersilia Open Source Initiative

1. Read in detail the Ideas List and Ersilia Documentation before asking questions. You will find most of the answers you need in these pages!&#x20;
2. Get in touch with the community members. Use the invite link to join the dedicated workspace for GSoC23. There you will find Ersilia’s mentors but also other applicants who might also help you with your questions and doubts. We value community participation above all else, so helping your peers in the application process is highly encouraged. Ersilia mentors will have the (mentor) tag in their name for easy identification.
3. Get familiar with Ersilia’s current work and projects by looking at our Github [page](https://github.com/ersilia-os). We manage most of our projects via GitHub projects and issues.
4. Tell the mentors about your intention to apply, giving an outline (2-3 lines) about your project proposal, and wait for feedback before jumping into writing a full application.
5. Make sure to fulfill the minimum requirements for the project, as listed in the ideas page.
6. Prepare your application making sure you answer, at least, the following questions:
   1. Contact information
   2. Project title: descriptive title of your proposed idea
   3. Summary of the project (200w)
   4. Milestones: the main goals of the project, approximately try to fill in one goal per week
   5. What will be the impact and outcomes of the project? (150w)
   6. Why are you interested in doing it? (150w)
   7. Do you have any previous experience in open source? Please list here any contributions to Ersilia or other open source communities (100w)
   8. How do you foresee your involvement with Ersilia upon completion of GSoC? (100w)
   9. Any other relevant information (Optional, such as other commitments during the period)
7. Submit the application through the GSoC website. We will not be able to make exceptions for applicants who do not follow the GSoC established system in time.

If you want to get feedback on your application from the mentors, use GDocs and make sure to grant the necessary access to the document.
