---
description: Command Line commands to interact with the Ersilia Model Hub
---

# Command Line commands



<table><thead><tr><th width="114">Command</th><th width="138">Flags</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>auth</td><td></td><td>This command uses GitHub as an identity provider to log a user into Ersilia. Currently, Ersilia does not have user management and therefore this command is simply a wrapper around GitHub login. This is a developer command assumes that the user is an Ersilia developer or model contributor.</td></tr><tr><td>catalog</td><td>[?OPT]</td><td>List the catalog of Ersilia models. By default, this command only shows the catalog of models available locally on a user's system.</td></tr><tr><td>catalog</td><td>-l/--local</td><td>This is similar to using the catalog command by itself. It only lists models present locally on the user's system.</td></tr><tr><td>catalog</td><td>-f/ --file_name</td><td>Write the  requested catalog to a given file.</td></tr><tr><td>catalog</td><td>-h/--hub</td><td>List all the models present in the Ersilia Model Hub. This command utilities the information maintained in a static JSON file on Ersilia's servers. The output format will be a JSON on the user's terminal, if no file name is specified. </td></tr><tr><td>catalog</td><td>--browser</td><td>Use this command to view all Ersilia maintained models in the browser in an Airtable table. This command needs to be used with the --hub flag otherwise it will raise an error indicating that the flag cannot be used to display local models. </td></tr><tr><td>catalog</td><td>--more/--less</td><td>Print more or less information about the catalog. When less information is requested, only the identifier is returned, otherwise, identifier, slug, and model title are returned.  The default behavior only returns the identifier. These flags work with both local and hub settings, however --more is very slow when viewing all models in the hub.</td></tr><tr><td>catalog</td><td>--card</td><td>Prints the card for the specified model eos id. Model does not need to be available locally. Presently, only a single model can be requested.</td></tr><tr><td>catalog</td><td>--as-table</td><td>Prints the catalog in an ASCII table. Works with both local and hub flags</td></tr><tr><td>close</td><td></td><td>Closes the model running in the shell from which this command is executed. Does not close models running in other shells.</td></tr><tr><td>delete</td><td>[MODEL]</td><td>Deletes the model specified with its eos id.</td></tr><tr><td>delete</td><td>--all</td><td>Deletes all the models available on the user's system.</td></tr><tr><td>example</td><td>[CMD]</td><td>This command can sample both ersilia models, or inputs for a given model. The command has two sub command - inputs, and models, to sample inputs and models respectively - one of which should be specified when running this command.</td></tr><tr><td>example inputs</td><td>[?MODEL] [?OPT]</td><td>Samples inputs for a given model which is either specified with a flag, or is inferred from the shell in which this command is run. If no model is running and no model is specified, it raises an error. </td></tr><tr><td>example inputs </td><td>-n, --n_samples</td><td>Specify the number of example inputs to generate for the given model. Default value is five.</td></tr><tr><td>example inputs </td><td>-f, --file_name</td><td>The file name to save the sampled example inputs. If not specified, the result is printed on the terminal.</td></tr><tr><td>example inputs</td><td>-s, --simple / -c/--complete</td><td>Simple inputs only contain essential information such as input SMILES, while complete inputs contain the Inchi key and other fields, potentially.</td></tr><tr><td>example inputs</td><td>-p, --predefined/-r, --random</td><td>If model source contains an example input file, when the predefined flag is set, then inputs are sampled from that file. Only the number of samples present in the file are returned, especially if --n_samples is greater than that number. Otherwise, by default, ersilia samples inputs randomly.</td></tr><tr><td>example models</td><td>[?OPT]</td><td>Samples models from the Ersilia model hub at random. By default only five models are sampled, however this can be overridden. </td></tr><tr><td>example models</td><td>-n, --n_samples</td><td>Number of models to sample. By default, five models are sampled.</td></tr><tr><td>example models</td><td>-f, --file_name</td><td>The file to save sampled models. If not specified, the result is printed on the terminal.</td></tr><tr><td>fetch</td><td>[MODEL]</td><td>Fetch a given ersilia model. Ersilia is smart enough to decide how to fetch this model, ie either using its Docker image, or from source - in most cases, if your Docker engine is active, a model is fetched using its image. However, this behavior can be overridden. When a model is re-fetched, Ersilia deletes all artifacts related to it, but for the sake of efficiency, the user is prompted to override this behavior when running this command.</td></tr><tr><td>fetch</td><td>[MODEL] --from_dir</td><td>Fetch the given model, from source, using a local path provided on the user's system. The path can be relative or absolute. </td></tr><tr><td>fetch</td><td>[MODEL] --from_github</td><td>Fetch the given model, from source, by cloning the GitHub repository of the model on the user's system.</td></tr><tr><td>fetch</td><td>[MODEL] --from_dockerhub</td><td>Fetch the given model using its Docker image maintained in Ersilia's public DockerHub registry</td></tr><tr><td>fetch</td><td>[MODEL] --from_s3</td><td>Fetch the given model, from source, using the model's code archive maintained on Ersilia's S3 storage servers.</td></tr><tr><td>fetch</td><td>[MODEL] --from_hosted</td><td>Fetch the given model, using the URL where the model is hosted. This only creates a basic folder structure for the model, and the model is not actually downloaded.</td></tr><tr><td>fetch</td><td>[MODEL] [OPT] --overwrite/--reuse</td><td>This flag is useful from an efficiency perspective. When fetching a model from source, a conda environment is created, which can be retained and reused, or overwritten, when re-fetching a model.</td></tr><tr><td>fetch</td><td>[MODEL] [OPT] --with_bentoml</td><td>This is a developer specific command and most users will not need to use it. This command fetches a model from source, and packs it using BentoML. For that to happen, the model source needs to follow a specific structure.</td></tr><tr><td>fetch</td><td>[MODEL] [OPT] --with_fastapi</td><td>This is a developer specific command and most users will not need to use it. This command fetches a model from source, and packs it using Ersilia Pack, using FastAPI. For that to happen, the model source needs to follow a specific structure.</td></tr><tr><td>info</td><td></td><td>Print the model card, ie its information on the terminal, for a currently running model.</td></tr><tr><td>run</td><td>[?OPT]</td><td>Run the model currently served in the shell where this command is executed.</td></tr><tr><td>run</td><td>-i, --input</td><td>Specify the input file, which must be a CSV. Alternatively a single SMILES input can be specified. The input file should ideally have a header.</td></tr><tr><td>run</td><td>-o, --output</td><td>Specify the file to save the model predictions. This can be a CSV, TSV, or JSON file. If not specified, output is printed on the user's terminal in JSON format.</td></tr><tr><td>run</td><td>-b, --batch_size</td><td>Specify the batch size for generating model predictions. </td></tr><tr><td>run</td><td>--table</td><td>Print the model predictions in an ASCII table on the terminal.</td></tr><tr><td>serve</td><td>[MODEL] [?OPT]</td><td>Serve the given model. </td></tr><tr><td>serve </td><td>[MODEL] --output_source</td><td>This flag is used to interact with the pre-calculations store maintained by Ersilia. Currently this is work in progress.</td></tr><tr><td>serve</td><td>[MODEL] --lake/--no-lake</td><td>Ersilia caches model predictions locally using a local lake, because this flag is True by default. However this functionality can be overridden.</td></tr><tr><td>serve</td><td>-p, --port</td><td>The port to use when creating a model server. If unspecified, Ersilia looks for empty ports to use on the user's system.</td></tr><tr><td>serve</td><td>-t, --track</td><td>Whether the model's runs should be tracked to monitor for model and system performance. This telemetry data can be uploaded to S3 if the appropriate credentials are provided. Currently only Ersilia developers and other Ersilia tools have that privile</td></tr><tr><td>uninstall</td><td></td><td>Use this command to remove all Ersilia artifacts on the user's system.</td></tr></tbody></table>
